README.md, before:

Curriculum Vitae
================

Introduction
------------
Dedicated web developer with an eye out for The Next Big Thing™ capable and
eager to work on projects small and large where the vision is greater than
the sum of its parts. An independent worker with a fluid mind ensures
out-of-the-box thinking and a unique approach to problems and solutions.

Skills
------
- Programming languages
-- Java, Python, SQL, C, Javascript, PHP, Bash

- Markup
-- Markdown, WikiCode, HTML, CSS, XML/XSD/XSLT, JSON,

- Databases
-- PostgreSQL, MySQL, MSSQL

- Frameworks
-- Spring, Django, React.js, jQuery, Flask, Node.js, Hibernate, Flex, Jasmine,
DWR, LESS, SASS, AngularJS, Velocity, Jersey, Jackson, Jira API, Enonic CMS API,
jUnit, Bootstrap 3, Karma, Protractor

- Tools
-- Maven, Grunt, Phantom.js, Nginx, JBoss, Tomcat, WebSphere,
ActiveMQ, Jira, Enonic CMS, Ericsson MSDP, Windows, Linux, OSX Server, Confluence,
Photoshop, LDAP, REST, Selenium, Gatling, Fitnesse

Work experience
---------------
## 2013&ndash; *present*
Solutions Engineer, [Iterate](http://iterate.no), Oslo (Norway)

## 2011&ndash;2013
Software Engineer, [Accenture](http://accenture.com), Oslo (Norway)

## 2010&ndash; *present*
Owner, [vardevs](http://vardevs.se), Sweden

## 2008&ndash;2010
Consultant, [Cybercom Group](http://cybercom.se), Karlskrona (Sweden)

## 2005&ndash;2008
Web-developer, [Kaxig Idébyrå](http://kaxig.com), Älmhult (Sweden)

Project experience
------------------

# [Ericsson](http://ericsson.se)
## FIFA World Cup: Platform Expert
### 2010-06&ndash;2010-07
*Role*: MSDP Platform Expert

*Keywords*: msdp, linux, oracle, db, java, sql

*Description*: On site in Romania (Bucharest) to solve platform dependent problems
with MSDP used to serve the mobile portals for FIFA, both the premium portals
that ISPs world-wide purchased (SaaS) and FIFA's official portal.

## FIFA World Cup: Premium Portals
### 2010-02&ndash;2010-05
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: xml, xlst, rest, xsd, msdp, jsp, windows, linux

*Description*: Ericsson-run project for FIFA to develop so-called Premium
Portals that they would in turn sell to ISP's as a package deal; a full mobile
portal complete with FIFA-related content, video streams, match results, games,
ringtones, etc.

# [Gjensidige](http://gjensidige.no)
## Redesign of the customer portal
### 2013-08&ndash;2014-06
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Upgrade the technology stack, including the CMS to the latest
and greatest version. Implement a different look and feel for the customer
portal.

## Maintenance
### 2014-06&ndash;2014-08
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Work with support tickets for all self-service portals that are
in use.

## Digital travel insurance card
### 2014-08&ndash;2015-01
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Implement and design a solution for digital travel insurance
cards that customers can administrate by themselves from the customer portal.

## Redesign of the customer portal: Phase 2
### 2015-01&ndash; present
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Phase 2 of the large redesign project which deals with problems
that customers experience with the customer portal. Among them is the development
of a new document archive client which has better usability and updated design.

# [HMode](http://hmode.se)
## Website
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-05
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, js, jquery, postgresql, nginx, html, css

*Description*: Design and development of a simple campaign site with
a simple backoffice administration GUI for HMode.

# [JC Älmhult](http://jcalmhult.se)
## Website
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-02
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, html

*Description*: Design and development of a simple site with a small backoffice.

# [Kaxig](http://kaxig.com)
## Various PSD-to-HTML conversion jobs
### 2005-08&ndash;2008-06
*Role*: Web-developer

*Keywords*: cms, html, cf, linux, sql, ssl, bash

*Description*: Various projects done part-time parallel to university studies,
mostly related to quickly creating production-ready websites from a
Photoshop-file, but every now and then there were some linux-related tasks that
needed to be done, e.g. database replication, new ssl certificates, fail-over
trigger scripts, etc.

# [NAV](http://nav.no)
## Pensjonsprogrammet
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-05
*Role*: Environment maintenance/support/developer

*Keywords*: maven, websphere, was, wps, java, adm, python, confluence, clearcase, windows, linux

*Description*: Developed a CMDB system in Python, integration against Confluence
and maintained the servers running WebSphere (WAS/WPS).

# [Perigee](http://perigee.se)
## Pocket Cycle Backend
### 2012-11&ndash;2014-12
*Role*: Backend developer

*Keywords*: python, flask, json, rest, webservice, api, azure

*Description*: A REST-based backend that handles user registration, partner
connections, persistence, etc. that talks JSON and also deals with IOS
notification integration through Microsoft Azure.

# [Sony Ericsson](http://sonyericsson.com)
## PlayNow Arena
### 2008-09&ndash;2010-01
*Role*: Front-end developer (mobile &amp; web)

*Keywords*: js, velocity, java, tomcat, dwr, jquery, mobile, web, spring,
windows, linux, html, tdd

*Description*: Part of the UX-team which was responsible for the web and mobile
web clients and the user experience of the webshop.

## PlayNow Arena
### 2008-06&ndash;2008-09
*Role*: Usability tester (web)

*Keywords*: ux, web, windows, testscripts

*Description*: Tasked with isolating problems related to the user experience
and writing reports on how to fix it.

# [SPK](http://spk.no)
## Agresso 2014
### 2013-03&ndash;2013-07
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: ad, ldap, java, webservice, spring, tdd

*Description*: 

## Business processes
### 2013-01&ndash;2013-07
*Role*: System manager and developer for off-the-shelf software

*Keywords*: agresso, jira, tidbank, confluence, java, linux, windows, sql, p360, js, html

*Description*: All-around go-to guy responsible for (but not exclusively) JIRA,
Confluence &amp; Agresso.

Some tidbits of work done at this role:
- Refactored the ITSOS-plugin for JIRA
- Developed a new custom JIRA plugin to sync changes on issues to a database
- Developed various macros for Confluence to circumvent limitations in the
  software
- Developed tools for the IT-helpdesk to automate common tasks
- Developed scripts for workflow automation, for example, automatic retrieval
  of files from the EHF-infrastructure

## IT Service & Support (ITSOS)
### 2012-09&ndash;2012-12
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: java, jira, sql

*Description*: Custom JIRA plugin with features to replace HP QualityCenter with JIRA.

## System development & maintenance
### 2012-04&ndash;2012-08
*Role*: System/front-end developer

*Keywords*: flex, java, batch, spring, tdd, fitnesse, linux, windows, jboss

*Description*: Worked with business logic related to pension payments to
retired people, logic related to claims/counter-claims against other pension
funds in batch jobs based on Spring.

## PERFORM Consolidation
### 2012-01&ndash;2012-03
*Role*: System/Front-end developer

*Keywords*: java, flex, jboss, hibernate, spring, linux, windows, bash, sql, batch, tdd

*Description*: Maintenance and consolidation of the pension process software suite.

## PERFORM
### 2011-06&ndash;2011-12
*Role*: System/Front-end developer

*Keywords*: java, flex, jboss, hibernate, spring, linux, windows, sql, tdd

*Description*: Developer working with Java/Flex to develop a new software for
managing government pensions. Work included Spring in many forms: MVC, batch,
security, etc.

# [Svenska Handelsbanken](http://handelsbanken.se)
## Support/Maintenance
### 2010-10&ndash;2010-12
*Role*: Developer/Support Operator

*Keywords*: jira, js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, rest,
wsdl, support, windows, linux, activemq, html, tdd

*Description*: Service license agreement for the solution, including bug fixes,
new releases, customer expectation management. Training new support operators
and writing training documentation.

## Mobile bank (phase 2)
### 2010-08&ndash;2010-10
*Role*: Lead developer (vertical stack)

*Keywords*: js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, rest, wsdl,
windows, linux, activemq, html, tdd

*Description*: A follow-up project to extend functionality and re-design the
look and feel. Responsible for the complete stack and the API consumed by
Iphone/Android applications.

## Mobile bank (phase 1)
### 2010-01&ndash;2010-06
*Role*: Front-end team lead

*Keywords*: js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, wsdl,
windows, linux, html, tdd

*Description*: Involved in the whole process, from identifying the customer
needs, designing the technical implementation, leading the front-end and API 
development effort and plugging security holes after a third party penetration
testing and security analysis of the application.

# Svärdells AB
## Graphical print material
### 2010&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Designer

*Keywords*: photoshop

*Description*: Design and production of print-ready advertisements on a ad-hoc
basis.

# [vardevs](http://vardevs.se) (a.k.a pet projects)
## WebChess
### 2013-02&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: js, nodejs, nosql, mongodb, html, tdd

*Description*: A turn-based multiplayer chess game built completely in
javascript. Some features:
- Telnet compatible (because, why not?)
- Play over e-mail (correspondence chess)
- JavaScript client for Web
- Local multiplayer (that can be resumed from separate devices) on e.g. tablets

## Kindress
### 2012-10&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: python, kindle, ebook, rss, html

*Description*: An application that grabs all given RSS-feeds and formats all
today's items into a neatly packaged e-book that is e-mailed to your Kindle for
easy consumption.

## vlv.io
### 2012-01&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: python, markdown, flask, html

*Description*: Flat-file blog project

# [Verona Motor](http://veronamotor.se)
## Redux web
### 2011-10&ndash;2012-03
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, js, jquery, postgresql, nginx, html

*Description*: Larger website designed and developed complete with backoffice
administration tools.


Education
---------
# [Blekinge Institute of Technology](http://bth.se)
## Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
### 2005-2009
*Major*: Computer Science

*Minor (1)*: Software Engineering

*Minor (2)*: English

# [Haganässkolan](http://haganasskolan.se/)
## "Gymnasie" (High School)
### 2001-2004
"Elprogrammet m. inriktning Elektronik/Data" (Electrician programme with focus on electronics and computer science)

# [Klöxhultsskolan](http://www.almhult.se/toppmeny/barnutbildning/grundskola/kloxhultsskolan.4.40681f1210df538087680004422.html)
## "Grundskolan" (Middle School)
### 1996-2001

# [International School of Singapore](http://www.iss.edu.sg/)
## Elementary school
### 1993-1996

# [Seoul International School](http://siskorea.org/)
## Elementary school
### 1991-1993

Commit message:

Update CV with final projects and reference from Gjensidige

README.md, after:

Curriculum Vitae
================

Introduction
------------
Dedicated web developer with an eye out for The Next Big Thing™ capable and
eager to work on projects small and large where the vision is greater than
the sum of its parts. An independent worker with a fluid mind ensures
out-of-the-box thinking and a unique approach to problems and solutions.

Skills
------
- Programming languages
-- Java, Python, SQL, C, Javascript, PHP, Bash

- Markup
-- Markdown, WikiCode, HTML, CSS, XML/XSD/XSLT, JSON,

- Databases
-- PostgreSQL, MySQL, MSSQL

- Frameworks
-- Spring, Django, React.js, jQuery, Flask, Node.js, Hibernate, Flex, Jasmine,
DWR, LESS, SASS, AngularJS, Velocity, Jersey, Jackson, Jira API, Enonic CMS API,
jUnit, Bootstrap 3, Karma, Protractor

- Tools
-- Maven, Grunt, Phantom.js, Nginx, JBoss, Tomcat, WebSphere,
ActiveMQ, Jira, Enonic CMS, Ericsson MSDP, Windows, Linux, OSX Server, Confluence,
Photoshop, LDAP, REST, Selenium, Gatling, Fitnesse

Work experience
---------------
## 2013&ndash; *present*
Solutions Engineer, [Iterate](http://iterate.no), Oslo (Norway)

## 2011&ndash;2013
Software Engineer, [Accenture](http://accenture.com), Oslo (Norway)

## 2010&ndash; *present*
Owner, [vardevs](http://vardevs.se), Sweden

## 2008&ndash;2010
Consultant, [Cybercom Group](http://cybercom.se), Karlskrona (Sweden)

## 2005&ndash;2008
Web-developer, [Kaxig Idébyrå](http://kaxig.com), Älmhult (Sweden)

Project experience
------------------

# [Ericsson](http://ericsson.se)
## FIFA World Cup: Platform Expert
### 2010-06&ndash;2010-07
*Role*: MSDP Platform Expert

*Keywords*: msdp, linux, oracle, db, java, sql

*Description*: On site in Romania (Bucharest) to solve platform dependent problems
with MSDP used to serve the mobile portals for FIFA, both the premium portals
that ISPs world-wide purchased (SaaS) and FIFA's official portal.

## FIFA World Cup: Premium Portals
### 2010-02&ndash;2010-05
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: xml, xlst, rest, xsd, msdp, jsp, windows, linux

*Description*: Ericsson-run project for FIFA to develop so-called Premium
Portals that they would in turn sell to ISP's as a package deal; a full mobile
portal complete with FIFA-related content, video streams, match results, games,
ringtones, etc.

# [Gjensidige](http://gjensidige.no)
## Redesign of the customer portal
### 2013-08&ndash;2014-06
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Upgrade the technology stack, including the CMS to the latest
and greatest version. Implement a different look and feel for the customer
portal.

## Maintenance
### 2014-06&ndash;2014-08
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Work with support tickets for all self-service portals that are
in use.

## Digital travel insurance card
### 2014-08&ndash;2015-01
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Implement and design a solution for digital travel insurance
cards that customers can administrate by themselves from the customer portal.

## Redesign of the customer portal: Phase 2
### 2015-01&ndash;2015-04
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: enonic, javascript, css3, html5, xml, xslt, spring, java, angularjs

*Description*: Phase 2 of the large redesign project which deals with problems
that customers experience with the customer portal. Among them is the development
of a new document archive client which has better usability and updated design.

## Ny Nettbutikk (New webshop)
### 2015-04&ndash;2015-05

*Role*: Developer, GJEFF expert, DevOps

*Description*: Execute user tests, implement design elements into the Gjensidige
Frontend Framework (GJEFF), act as subject matter expert regarding GJEFF and ease
the transition into virtual development images for developers.

## Gjensidige Frontend Framework Improvement
### 2015-06&ndash;2015-08

*Role*: Frontend Tech Lead, 

*Description*: The intervention has two major goals:

First, complete the prioritized tasks on the GJEFF JIRA board. 

Second, raise the Quality of the documentation to a level where we be proud
over the documentation and use it both internally and externally with select
partners in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Baltics and Poland.

# [HMode](http://hmode.se)
## Website
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-05
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, js, jquery, postgresql, nginx, html, css

*Description*: Design and development of a simple campaign site with
a simple backoffice administration GUI for HMode.

# [JC Älmhult](http://jcalmhult.se)
## Website
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-02
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, html

*Description*: Design and development of a simple site with a small backoffice.

# [Kaxig](http://kaxig.com)
## Various PSD-to-HTML conversion jobs
### 2005-08&ndash;2008-06
*Role*: Web-developer

*Keywords*: cms, html, cf, linux, sql, ssl, bash

*Description*: Various projects done part-time parallel to university studies,
mostly related to quickly creating production-ready websites from a
Photoshop-file, but every now and then there were some linux-related tasks that
needed to be done, e.g. database replication, new ssl certificates, fail-over
trigger scripts, etc.

# [NAV](http://nav.no)
## Pensjonsprogrammet
### 2011-01&ndash;2011-05
*Role*: Environment maintenance/support/developer

*Keywords*: maven, websphere, was, wps, java, adm, python, confluence, clearcase, windows, linux

*Description*: Developed a CMDB system in Python, integration against Confluence
and maintained the servers running WebSphere (WAS/WPS).

# [Perigee](http://perigee.se)
## Pocket Cycle Backend
### 2012-11&ndash;2014-12
*Role*: Backend developer

*Keywords*: python, flask, json, rest, webservice, api, azure

*Description*: A REST-based backend that handles user registration, partner
connections, persistence, etc. that talks JSON and also deals with IOS
notification integration through Microsoft Azure.

# [Sony Ericsson](http://sonyericsson.com)
## PlayNow Arena
### 2008-09&ndash;2010-01
*Role*: Front-end developer (mobile &amp; web)

*Keywords*: js, velocity, java, tomcat, dwr, jquery, mobile, web, spring,
windows, linux, html, tdd

*Description*: Part of the UX-team which was responsible for the web and mobile
web clients and the user experience of the webshop.

## PlayNow Arena
### 2008-06&ndash;2008-09
*Role*: Usability tester (web)

*Keywords*: ux, web, windows, testscripts

*Description*: Tasked with isolating problems related to the user experience
and writing reports on how to fix it.

# [SPK](http://spk.no)
## Agresso 2014
### 2013-03&ndash;2013-07
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: ad, ldap, java, webservice, spring, tdd

*Description*: 

## Business processes
### 2013-01&ndash;2013-07
*Role*: System manager and developer for off-the-shelf software

*Keywords*: agresso, jira, tidbank, confluence, java, linux, windows, sql, p360, js, html

*Description*: All-around go-to guy responsible for (but not exclusively) JIRA,
Confluence &amp; Agresso.

Some tidbits of work done at this role:
- Refactored the ITSOS-plugin for JIRA
- Developed a new custom JIRA plugin to sync changes on issues to a database
- Developed various macros for Confluence to circumvent limitations in the
  software
- Developed tools for the IT-helpdesk to automate common tasks
- Developed scripts for workflow automation, for example, automatic retrieval
  of files from the EHF-infrastructure

## IT Service & Support (ITSOS)
### 2012-09&ndash;2012-12
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: java, jira, sql

*Description*: Custom JIRA plugin with features to replace HP QualityCenter with JIRA.

## System development & maintenance
### 2012-04&ndash;2012-08
*Role*: System/front-end developer

*Keywords*: flex, java, batch, spring, tdd, fitnesse, linux, windows, jboss

*Description*: Worked with business logic related to pension payments to
retired people, logic related to claims/counter-claims against other pension
funds in batch jobs based on Spring.

## PERFORM Consolidation
### 2012-01&ndash;2012-03
*Role*: System/Front-end developer

*Keywords*: java, flex, jboss, hibernate, spring, linux, windows, bash, sql, batch, tdd

*Description*: Maintenance and consolidation of the pension process software suite.

## PERFORM
### 2011-06&ndash;2011-12
*Role*: System/Front-end developer

*Keywords*: java, flex, jboss, hibernate, spring, linux, windows, sql, tdd

*Description*: Developer working with Java/Flex to develop a new software for
managing government pensions. Work included Spring in many forms: MVC, batch,
security, etc.

# [Svenska Handelsbanken](http://handelsbanken.se)
## Support/Maintenance
### 2010-10&ndash;2010-12
*Role*: Developer/Support Operator

*Keywords*: jira, js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, rest,
wsdl, support, windows, linux, activemq, html, tdd

*Description*: Service license agreement for the solution, including bug fixes,
new releases, customer expectation management. Training new support operators
and writing training documentation.

## Mobile bank (phase 2)
### 2010-08&ndash;2010-10
*Role*: Lead developer (vertical stack)

*Keywords*: js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, rest, wsdl,
windows, linux, activemq, html, tdd

*Description*: A follow-up project to extend functionality and re-design the
look and feel. Responsible for the complete stack and the API consumed by
Iphone/Android applications.

## Mobile bank (phase 1)
### 2010-01&ndash;2010-06
*Role*: Front-end team lead

*Keywords*: js, velocity, mobile, spring, jboss, msdp, webservice, wsdl,
windows, linux, html, tdd

*Description*: Involved in the whole process, from identifying the customer
needs, designing the technical implementation, leading the front-end and API 
development effort and plugging security holes after a third party penetration
testing and security analysis of the application.

# Svärdells AB
## Graphical print material
### 2010&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Designer

*Keywords*: photoshop

*Description*: Design and production of print-ready advertisements on a ad-hoc
basis.

# [vardevs](http://vardevs.se) (a.k.a pet projects)
## WebChess
### 2013-02&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: js, nodejs, nosql, mongodb, html, tdd

*Description*: A turn-based multiplayer chess game built completely in
javascript. Some features:
- Telnet compatible (because, why not?)
- Play over e-mail (correspondence chess)
- JavaScript client for Web
- Local multiplayer (that can be resumed from separate devices) on e.g. tablets

## Kindress
### 2012-10&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: python, kindle, ebook, rss, html

*Description*: An application that grabs all given RSS-feeds and formats all
today's items into a neatly packaged e-book that is e-mailed to your Kindle for
easy consumption.

## vlv.io
### 2012-01&ndash; *present*
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: python, markdown, flask, html

*Description*: Flat-file blog project

# [Verona Motor](http://veronamotor.se)
## Redux web
### 2011-10&ndash;2012-03
*Role*: Developer

*Keywords*: django, python, js, jquery, postgresql, nginx, html

*Description*: Larger website designed and developed complete with backoffice
administration tools.


Education
---------
# [Blekinge Institute of Technology](http://bth.se)
## Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
### 2005-2009
*Major*: Computer Science

*Minor (1)*: Software Engineering

*Minor (2)*: English

# [Haganässkolan](http://haganasskolan.se/)
## "Gymnasie" (High School)
### 2001-2004
"Elprogrammet m. inriktning Elektronik/Data" (Electrician programme with focus on electronics and computer science)

# [Klöxhultsskolan](http://www.almhult.se/toppmeny/barnutbildning/grundskola/kloxhultsskolan.4.40681f1210df538087680004422.html)
## "Grundskolan" (Middle School)
### 1996-2001

# [International School of Singapore](http://www.iss.edu.sg/)
## Elementary school
### 1993-1996

# [Seoul International School](http://siskorea.org/)
## Elementary school
### 1991-1993
